Support for OIDC Authentication (#16555)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-azurerm: website/docs/guides/service_principal_oidc.html.markdown

---
layout: "azurerm"

> page_title: "Azure Provider: Authenticating via a Service Principal and Open ID Connect"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: "Azure Provider: Authenticating via a Service Principal and OpenID Connect"
```

description: |-

>   This guide will cover how to use a Service Principal (Shared Account) with Open ID Connect as authentication for the Azure Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This guide will cover how to use a Service Principal (Shared Account) with OpenID Connect as authentication for the Azure Provider.
```

---

# Azure Provider: Authenticating using a Service Principal with Open ID Connect

Terraform supports a number of different methods for authenticating to Azure:

* [Authenticating to Azure using the Azure CLI](azure_cli.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using Managed Service Identity](managed_service_identity.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and a Client Certificate](service_principal_client_certificate.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and a Client Secret](service_principal_client_secret.html)
* Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and Open ID Connect (which is covered in this guide)
---

We recommend using either a Service Principal or Managed Service Identity when running Terraform non-interactively (such as when running Terraform in a CI server) - and authenticating using the Azure CLI when running Terraform locally.

## Setting up an Application and Service Principal

> A Service Principal is a security principal within Azure Active Directory which can be granted access to resources within Azure Subscriptions. To authenticate with a Service Principal, you will need to create an Application object within Azure Active Directory, which you will use as a means of authentication, either [using a Client Secret](service_principal_client_secret.html), [a Client Certificate](service_principal_client_certificate.html), or Open ID Connect (which is documented in this guide). This can be done using the Azure Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Service Principal is a security principal within Azure Active Directory which can be granted access to resources within Azure Subscriptions. To authenticate with a Service Principal, you will need to create an Application object within Azure Active Directory, which you will use as a means of authentication, either [using a Client Secret](service_principal_client_secret.html), [a Client Certificate](service_principal_client_certificate.html), or OpenID Connect (which is documented in this guide). This can be done using the Azure Portal.
```

Once the Application exists in Azure Active Directory - we can grant it permissions to modify resources in the Subscription. To do this, [navigate to the **Subscriptions** blade within the Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Billing/SubscriptionsBlade), then select the Subscription you wish to use, then click **Access Control (IAM)**, and finally **Add** > **Add role assignment**.

Firstly, specify a Role which grants the appropriate permissions needed for the Service Principal (for example, `Contributor` will grant Read/Write on all resources in the Subscription). There's more information about [the built in roles available here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/documentation/articles/role-based-access-built-in-roles/).

Secondly, search for and select the name of the Service Principal created in Azure Active Directory to assign it this role - then press **Save**.

### Configuring the Service Principal in Terraform

As we've obtained the credentials for this Service Principal - it's possible to configure them in a few different ways.

When storing the credentials as Environment Variables, for example:

> ```bash
> $ export ARM_CLIENT_ID="00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
> $ export ARM_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_TOKEN="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
> $ export ARM_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_URL="https://xxxxxxxx"
> $ export ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID="00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
> $ export ARM_TENANT_ID="00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
> ```
> 
> The `ARM_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_TOKEN` and `ARM_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_URL` will vary based on the platform requestring access.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
$ export ARM_CLIENT_ID="00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
$ export ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID="00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
$ export ARM_TENANT_ID="00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
```

The provider will detect the `ACTIONS_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_URL` and `ACTIONS_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_TOKEN` environment variables set by GitHub. You can also specify the `ARM_OIDC_REQUEST_TOKEN` and `ARM_OIDC_REQUEST_URL` environment variables.
````

For GitHub Actions workflows, You can take the environment variables `ACTIONS_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_TOKEN` and `ACTIONS_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_URL` set during a GitHub Actions workflow run and assign their values to `ARM_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_TOKEN` and `ARM_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_URL` respectifully.

Additionally, for GitHub Actions workflows, you'll need to ensure the workflow has `write` permissions for the `id-token`.

```yaml
permissions:
  id-token: write
  contents: read
```

> For more about OIDC in GitHub Actions, you can read more [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-cloud-providers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about OIDC in GitHub Actions, see [official documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-cloud-providers).
```

The following Terraform and Provider blocks can be specified - where `3.0.0` is the version of the Azure Provider that you'd like to use:

```hcl
# We strongly recommend using the required_providers block to set the
# Azure Provider source and version being used
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azurerm = {
      source  = "hashicorp/azurerm"
      version = "=3.0.0"
    }
  }
}

# Configure the Microsoft Azure Provider
provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
}
```

More information on [the fields supported in the Provider block can be found here](../index.html#argument-reference).

At this point running either `terraform plan` or `terraform apply` should allow Terraform to run using the Service Principal to authenticate.

---

It's also possible to configure these variables either in-line or from using variables in Terraform (as the `id_token_request_token` and `id_token_request_url` are in this example), like so:

~> **NOTE:** We'd recommend not defining these variables in-line since they could easily be checked into Source Control.

```hcl

> variable "id_token_request_token" {}
> variable "id_token_request_url" {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
variable "oidc_request_token" {}
variable "oidc_request_url" {}
```
